
THE PAPERS AND WRITINGS OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN

VOLUME SIX

CONSTITUTIONAL EDITION

By Abraham Lincoln


Edited by Arthur Brooks Lapsley





THE WRITINGS OF A. LINCOLN, Volume Six, 1862-1863




1862




RECOMMENDATION OF NAVAL OFFICERS

MESSAGE TO CONGRESS.

WASHINGTON, D.C., May 14, 1862.

TO SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

The third section of the "Act further to promote the efficiency of the
Navy," approved 21st of December, 1861, provides:

"That the President of the United States by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, shall have the authority to detail from the retired
list of the navy for the command of squadrons and single ships such
officers as he may believe that the good of the service requires to be
thus placed in command; and such officers may, if upon the recommendation
of the President of the United States they shall receive a vote of thanks
of Congress for their services and gallantry in action against an enemy,
be restored to the active list, and not otherwise."

In conformity with this law, Captain David G. Farragut was nominated to
the Senate for continuance as the flag-officer in command of the squadron
which recently rendered such important service to the Union by his
successful operations on the lower Mississippi and capture of New Orleans.

Believing that no occasion could arise which would more fully correspond
with the intention of the law or be more pregnant with happy influence as
an example, I cordially recommend that Captain D. G. Farragut receive a
vote of thanks of Congress for his services and gallantry displayed in the
capture since 21st December, 1861, of Forts Jackson and St. Philip, city
of New Orleans, and the destruction of various rebel gunboats, rams,
etc.....




TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

I submit herewith a list of naval officers who commanded vessels
engaged in the recent brilliant operations of the squadron commanded by
Flag-officer Farragut which led to the capture of Forts Jackson and St.
Philip, city of New Orleans, and the destruction of rebel gunboats, rams,
etc., in April 1862. For their services and gallantry on those occasions I
cordially recommend that they should, by name, receive a vote of thanks of
Congress:

LIST:

     Captain Theodorus Bailey.
     Captain Henry W. Morris.
     Captain Thomas T. Craven.
     Commander Henry H. Bell.
     Commander Samuel Phillips Lee.
     Commander Samuel Swartwout.
     Commander Melancton Smith.
     Commander Charles Stewart Boggs
     Commander John De Camp
     Commander James Alden.
     Commander David D. Porter.
     Commander Richard Wainwright.
     Commander William B. Renshaw.
     Lieutenant Commanding Abram D. Harrell.
     Lieutenant Commanding Edward Donaldson.
     Lieutenant Commanding George H. Preble.
     Lieutenant Commanding Edward T. Nichols.
     Lieutenant Commanding Jonathan M. Wainwright.
     Lieutenant Commanding John Guest.
     Lieutenant Commanding Charles H. B. Caldwell.
     Lieutenant Commanding Napoleon B. Harrison.
     Lieutenant Commanding Albert N. Smith.
     Lieutenant Commanding Pierce Crosby.
     Lieutenant Commanding George M. Ransom.
     Lieutenant Commanding Watson Smith.
     Lieutenant Commanding John H. Russell.
     Lieutenant Commanding Walter W. Queen.
     Lieutenant Commanding K. Randolph Breese.
     Acting Lieutenant Commanding Sellin E. Woolworth.
     Acting Lieutenant Commanding Charles H. Baldwin.


A. LINCOLN.

WASHINGTON, D.C., May 14, 1862




TELEGRAM TO GENERAL G. B. McCLELLAN.

WASHINGTON CITY, May 15, 1862.

MAJOR-GENERAL McCLELLAN, Cumberland, Virginia:

Your long despatch of yesterday is just received. I will answer more fully
soon. Will say now that all your despatches to the Secretary of War have
been promptly shown to me. Have done and shall do all I could and can to
sustain you. Hoped that the opening of James River and putting Wool and
Burnside in communication, with an open road to Richmond, or to you, had
effected something in that direction. I am still unwilling to take all our
force off the direct line between Richmond and here.


A. LINCOLN.




SPEECH TO THE 12TH INDIANA REGIMENT, MAY [15?] 1862

SOLDIERS, OF THE TWELFTH INDIANA REGIMENT:

It has not been customary heretofore, nor will it be hereafter, for me
to say something to every regiment passing in review. It occurs too
frequently for me to have speeches ready on all occasions. As you have
paid such a mark of respect to the chief magistrate, it appears that I
should say a word or two in reply. Your colonel has thought fit, on his
own account and in your name, to say that you are satisfied with the
manner in which I have performed my part in the difficulties which have
surrounded the nation. For your kind expressions I am extremely grateful,
but on the other hand I assure you that the nation is more indebted to
you, and such as you, than to me. It is upon the brave hearts and strong
arms of the people of the country that our reliance has been placed in
support of free government and free institutions.

For the part which you and the brave army of which you are a part have,
under Providence, performed in this great struggle, I tender more thanks
especially to this regiment, which has been the subject of good report.
The thanks of the nation will follow you, and may God's blessing rest upon
you now and forever. I hope that upon your return to your homes you will
find your friends and loved ones well and happy. I bid you farewell.




TELEGRAM TO GENERAL I. McDOWELL.

WASHINGTON, May 16, 1862.

MAJOR-GENERAL McDOWELL:

What is the strength of your force now actually with you?


A. LINCOLN.




MEMORANDUM OF PROPOSED ADDITIONS TO INSTRUCTIONS OF ABOVE DATE

TO GENERAL McDOWELL, AND GENERAL MEIGS'S INDORSEMENT THEREON.

May 17, 1862. You will retain the separate command of the forces taken
with you; but while co-operating with General McClellan you will obey his
orders, except that you are to judge, and are not to allow your force to
be disposed otherwise than so as to give the greatest protection to this
capital which may be possible from that distance.

[Indorsement.]

TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR:

The President having shown this to me, I suggested that it is dangerous to
direct a subordinate not to obey the orders of his superior in any case,
and that to give instructions to General McClellan to this same end and
furnish General McDowell with a copy thereof would effect the object
desired by the President. He desired me to say that the sketch of
instructions to General McClellan herewith he thought made this addition
unnecessary.

Respectfully, M. C. M.

